this is dan gasps way with a pinching
Academy once again today I'm just going
to show you some very basic fundamentals
about core strength training some core
exercises that you can do the reason why
i want to show you believe it or not a
lot of people a lot of individuals out
there ignore still to this day ignore
strength and agility training they
ignore core strength training and i just
want to make sure that all of the
pictures out there understand the
importance of why core strength training
is so important your core is the hub
that connects everything together
remember throwing a baseball is a feat
to fingertip exercise so you want to
make sure you know you're only as strong
as your weakest link and if that weak
link is your core you're not going to
generate power through to home plate and
you're going to slow yourself down your
decelerate or muscles all your back
believe it or not your back is part of
your core core strength training a lot
of people think it's just your your abs
it's not it's all all your waist
everything around here and even some
muscles that come down here so without
being scientific or getting too much
into that type of training there are
plenty of YouTube videos that will teach
you a lot of core strength training
exercises I just want to make sure that
you get some of the basics here and
throughout our DVD just let me show you
a couple of exercises when you're doing
your core exercises you want to make
sure you you're stabilized meaning well
I'll just show you right here this is
these are called basic planks you just
want to start here and just keep your
back straight just like this you could
have prone holds you just hold these for
maybe start out at 30 seconds hold them
up to about 60 seconds you could
actually still do a great core workout
just sitting here in the basic pushup
position and then every once in a while
coming down here down here like this and
then wrote
in here that's all core work is done
like that you can do some core exercises
like that as well let's work on the back
a little bit the erector spinae muscles
you can you can actually just do basic
exercises where you're here and then you
come up your right hand goes up and your
left foot comes straight back and then
you just switch these and then you can
get into the Superman's which I'll show
you here in a minute but one arm goes up
and then you can hold that for a couple
of seconds come back down do the same
thing hold that just come straight out
do the opposite arm and the opposite leg
and then the Superman sir when you come
down just like this hopefully you can
still see me then you do the super
minute one arm up one leg up and then
you could also do the swimmers where
you're down here up like this and then
you just rotate like that making sure
your back is up like that in that
posture but there are really there there
are literally thousands of exercises you
could do thousands of course strength
training exercises just make sure you
choose wisely work out your core Oh
three times a week a great time to work
out of your core is just right after
practice there are actually there's
actually a lot of downtime in practices
I know in high school and especially
Little League many of your coaches
aren't that organized unfortunately so I
would just do core strength training at
practice get it done if you saw the
light dumbbell workout we sent you
yesterday then those are great just
bring some light dumbbells in your bag
five to ten pound dumbbells and your in
your bag get those done at practice at
practice as well so just only spend
maybe 10 or 15 minutes on your core
every other day three times a week and
then spend about 10 or 15 minutes with
light dumbbell exercises
and then I'd spend about another 10 or
15 minutes on elastic band work all of
these exercises we go into great detail
in our pitching workouts DVD which which
is on sale this week that's why I did a
few poor exercises if it sounds like I'm
out of breath it is because I am I've
been working out I know it doesn't look
like it but I have been I just went for
a run and I'm still kind of exhausted
from that run so but anyway no those
didn't wear me out but anyway take a
good look at the the offer this week
hopefully take advantage of it a better
deal as our pitching mechanics or
actually our DVD series if you haven't
gotten that that's hitting mechanics
pitching workouts pitching mechanics how
to teach pictures it's also there's also
hitting mechanics and how to teach
hitters looking at different different
coaching philosophies what works and
what doesn't with with both pitching and
hitting and if you have any questions
feel free to just contact us we look
forward to hearing from you